---
title: OPEN NEUROSCIENCE and CLOUD TECHNOLOGY
subtitle : INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY FOR BETTER, FASTER, STRONGER SCIENCE
image : /img/500x500.svg
tags : ['feature']
---
We promote the application of cloud technology to psychological and brain science research. Why use cloud technology in neuroscience? “Isn’t that just for games or business?” Companies like Apple, Microsoft, Google, FaceBook and Amazon among thousands have benefited tremendously by developing products that use cloud services. A cloud service is software that runs for you via a remote computer. Software that does not sit inside a lab in an office building. It is software expertly safeguarded inside a secure data center. Cloud services allow proficient management of data records, allowing advanced visualization and the orchestration of compute resources to process large amounts of data efficiently. Cloud technology reduces the time spent by scientists on software and hardware maintenance while facilitating the tracking of data files, and data formats so reducing human errors, improving reproducibility and replicability of scientific results. We believe that just as companies have benefited from cloud services, scientific research can also benefit from the very same technology. 
 
The PESTILLI LAB has developed brainlife.io, an open-source, free cloud computing platform that is allowing thousands among trainees and researchers to access the most advanced resources for data processing. Brainlife.io leverages expertise and resources at the Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC), the Indiana University Data Center, Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center, San Diego Supercomputer Center as well as commercial clouds such as Microsoft Azure to help neuroscientists capture, manage, share, visualize and analyze data. Thousands of users have used millions of free computing cycles and analyzed hundreds of thousands of GB of brain data using brainlife.io Funded by the BRAIN Initiative, the National Science Foundation, the National Institute of Health, the Department of Defense and Microsoft Corporation, brainlife.io is one-of-a-kind open-science platform. It is compatible with the Brain Imaging Data Structure (BIDS), DataLad, and registered FAIRSharing and DataCite member. We believe cloud platforms like brainlife.io can serve scientists well. While scientists focus on their research questions, cloud technology can serve the scientists by reducing human mistakes, and allowing the most rigorous science to be implemented.